Come on, let's go.
[Applause]
[Music]
That was
that was a battle, you know, and I think
about it. All I wanted was one set
today. I typically say 220 for 10 equals
300 for one.
That was eight reps. Yes, I do know how
to count. But I feel like I could have
done 10.
Except after the first rep in my head, I
wanted to put the weight down. How's
that for psychology? That's a tough
battle. Why is it a tough battle?
Busy weeks. On Monday session, I
squatted. And I wasn't supposed to
squat,
but I did that because my deadlift
session, I tore a callus on my hand. So
I changed the course of that program for
the entire week. And instead of having a
deadlift day, I did one top set of 275,
which tore my callus. And then I did
back down work, stiletto squats,
3x 8 on 180.
And you know that's really good volume
for me for the week.
However, my program is to push forward
my low bar squats. If you're following
along, I'm following a new style of
program which is a rotary program where
we go 864
753 642 531. Right. So for my squats,
this is week one. We're doing eights. My
bench press, I did eights on 170. This
is eights on 220. Ideally, I wanted more
sets, but because I've already squatted
this week, it's like, ah, that was my
squat session. So, you know, I could
have Do I scratch the session? Mentally,
I wanted to get that eight reps on 220
so that I can continue with the
remainder of the program. And I feel
like I'm still a bit beat up from
Monday's squats, but you know, mentally,
it's just I had to get that number in.
So, this is where I'm kind of loosely
following the program, but also not. So,
this is where the program is there as a
guide, but it's not really set in stone
that way. So, the guide is to be
following the rotary plan and it's sets
of eight. And I'm following it for my
squats on my bench press. So, today all
I needed to do was check that box. I
didn't want to skip the squats this
week. I don't like skipping squats. So,
yeah, you know, I already I did it once
on Monday, but that wasn't the program.
It's not stiletto squats. That's my
accessory. But the way that I did that
accessory is damn fatiguing. And warming
up today was just like I shouldn't have
done that on Mon. I mean, like I should
have I always like to squat. My my sweet
spot for quads and for squat pattern is
to squat two times per week or do some
type of quadricep work two sessions a
week. So a lot of the times that means
heavy squats on one day and things like
leg press or hack squats or sometimes an
accessory squat pattern on the second
day. So that is my formula, but it's
always one heavy session and one light
session. When I say heavy and light, I
mean one high RP session and one low RP
session. So, typically I like to say
this is the high RP session. And then my
secondary day, which I've already done,
is the low RP session. And the reason
why it's a low RP session, it's a little
bit of maintenance, but it's really low
RP, so it doesn't interfere with the
heavy day. Now, Monday wasn't low RP, it
was quite high RP. So, 3x8 on the
stiletto squats was a high RP. Anyways,
so that's done. So, this is me now kind
of readjusting my program. And what I'm
going to do because I I just don't my
body is not right to do more squat
volume. I've done all my squat volume
for the week. Now I'm not finished the
session. I'm going to do accessories.
But what I'm going to do is the homework
that I neglected on Monday, which is on
Monday I was supposed to do deadlifts as
per So I've got a few amazing guys on my
team. Uh one of them being fellow by the
name of Venislav Dimitrov. He's from
Bulgaria and he deadlifted 485 kgs at
Eisenhart. He's deadlifted 510 kilograms
sumo deadlifted in training. arguably
one of the best sumo deadlifters on the
planet and he's one of the coaches on my
team. Speaking to him about good
deadlift programs for sumo because if
you've been following I'm reintroducing
some sumo deadlifts in my program. No,
that doesn't mean I'm ditching
conventional. I want to be good at both.
I like being good at both. And the
program that he's got me on is slow
eccentrics on a stiff bar for sets of
four to six reps. So, this was meant to
be my first session on Monday when I
tore my callus doing my 275. So, what
I'm going to do is this accessory work
uh because it's light. It's not a heavy
deadlift. It's going to be 4 second
eccentric. That's going to be pretty
annoying and I don't even know where I'm
going with that. So, my first thought is
I don't know what that means. Is that
200 kg? Maybe I'll do the first set of
200 kg and see how that feels. And if
that's hard, I'll do a couple more sets
of that. If it's really easy, then I'll
go up. But that's what I'm going to do
next. Did you have a question, sir?
>> Some people said like, "Oh, you just
tore the callus. Like, why are you not
training like?"
>> Oh, yeah. So, I tore the callus. Seems
like it's a very minor thing, and it it
is a really minor thing, but it's just
one of those things that just interferes
with like it just hurts your hands too
much. It's a really strange sensation.
So, that 275, it was just slipping out
of my hands. So, when you have calluses
and you don't protect the skin, those
calluses, they just tear off and no
matter how hard you're squeezing onto
that barbell, it just slides out of your
hand. It just rips the skin off. You're
gripping hard, but the skin just comes
off. It's like you're holding on to
butter and it's really frustrating. Um,
so you've got to take care of the
calluses. But either way, once that rips
off, it's very thick skin and when it
rips off, it's just raw skin. It's
bleeding and it's stings and every time
you hold on to anything, it just hurts.
So the alternative, that's what a lot of
people do, is they put straps on and
then they continue the session. For me,
it's like even with the straps, it just
hurts. It's annoying. I know what it
means to just stop and in a few days
it's going to be fine. And that's what
my plan was all along was who cares? I'm
not going to risk infecting it. So, I
clean it straight away and then I moved
on to squats. Still had a great session.
So, now, you know, the skin's healed. I
am going to use straps because it's not
healed that well that I can hold on to
the bar. Uh, but I will be using straps
today. And, um, yeah, that's exactly why
I stopped. You know, I'm not competing
either. So, if I was competing, you
know, and that's when people, you know,
say, you know, [__] it. I just need to
like whatever it takes, I've got to I've
got to keep on, you know, getting the
work in. Um, for me, like, yeah, I do
want to get the work in, but there's no
urgency. I knew that I'd be able to
either just not do it at all that week
and and come back next week and it'll be
fine or that's what I've decided to do
is do my accessory deadlifts today. So,
that's another nice programming
strategy. Um, when we talk about how
many times a week do you squat and
deadlift, squats are fatiguing, but
they're not as fatiguing as deadlifts.
So, typically I like to say my sweet
spot is two times a week squats or quad
pattern exercises. Um, two times a week
is the sweet spot even at the highest
level. And when you're more, you know,
when you're more elite or stronger
squatter, then I'd highly recommend a
heavy day and a light day. Um, but if
you're advanced, you can do two heavy,
sorry, if you're intermediate and
beginner, you can do two heavy days. But
the stronger you get, the more recovery
you need. But when it comes to deadlift,
two heavy days of deadlifts or like one
heavy day of deadlifting a week is
enough. Sometimes it's one heavy day,
one light day. That's how I program.
Thor Bjönson, I'm going to keep dropping
the name. He just deadlifted 510 kg.
Best deadlifter on the planet. When I
say deadlift, that means conventional.
best in the planet, 510 kilograms and
with ease. Did a whole post about that.
You should check that out. Um, he does
not squat heavy every week. He squats
every week to maintain the skill, but he
says he has one heavy session, one light
session, one heavy session, one light
session, but he's on another level. He's
on another damn planet, that guy. Um,
and because he's so strong, that's why
he needs more time to recover from the
sessions. I'm not as strong as that. And
either way, you don't go heavy all year
round anyway. So, I'm not going heavy.
And what I like to do even on my
advanced athletes is sometimes do two
posterior chain sessions in a week. And
here's a really nice strategy for it.
Day one, so squat day, heavy squats and
accessory deadlifts. So this is what my
accessory deadlifts is going to be. And
then on day two, you do the the heavy
deadlift component with accessory
squats, which is what I did. It was the
275 single and then my accessories were
3x8 stiletto squats. So that's what I'm
going to be doing uh in this program.
So, let me get all this [__] off and
then I'm going to start warming up on my
deadlifts.
>> So, I'm going to do slow eccentrics, uh,
sumo, slow eentrics,
and you know, this is just an accessory
for sumo. I'm not going to do heavy
sumos for a while. Um, now, Vince Love,
very similar to me. Um, and I don't
think it's I know he's not coping me.
Um, and I think it's something that a
lot of the best lifters have in common
is they prioritize lifting technique.
Now,
whenever I train anyone, um, I put them
on a long-term plan and the first phase
of any of my plans is a movement
literacy plan where the priority is
technique. because there's a lot of
amazing things that we want to do when
we train. Build muscle, build strength,
and you know, that's the main things
obviously,
but all of these physical qualities,
whether it's building strength or
building muscle, have one thing in
common, that is hard work. Right? So,
you don't want to work hard and push
exercises as hard as what I just did
if your technique is wrong. Right? So
that's why the first thing you want to
do when you first start training is
master the movement before you start
applying high effort and high volume
into it. And something that I've always
said with myself and my sumo journey,
which isn't much of one, but every now
and then I try sumo and I do the wrong
thing. I do the dumb thing, which is
what a lot of people do and I'm no
different. And that's, you know, I can
conventionally deadlift, you know,
whatever it is, say call it 300ish
kilogram. So, I come in and I expect to
do the same on sumo. And I'll come in
and
I can't go as heavy. It's my first
session. Why can't I deadlift as heavy
on my first session with sumo? It's
supposed to be a superior lever. It's
supposed to be a cheat code. Why is it
that I'm not as strong? Oh, it's because
sumo sucks. Throw it out the window. So,
that's a typical journey on uh people's
introduction to sumo deadlifting. Which
is why a lot of people say things like,
"I'm don't have the mobility for sumo. I
don't have the coordination for sumo."
or whatever it is, you just haven't put
the time into it. When you consider how
much time you put into your
conventional, so for me, I've been doing
conventional deadlift for, you know,
over a decade,
that's a lot of practice on a movement.
Over a decade of practice at a
conventional deadlift, and then you come
in on day one of a new technique,
expecting for it to be the same thing.
It's not. So, I'm treating myself like a
beginner with this sumo journey.
And I'm putting myself on well
Vince Slav
is putting me on a movement literacy
phase which is the first thing he said
to me. He said you know I showed him my
deadlift. I said what do you think? And
he said I think what you should do is
this program first. He said sets of four
to six with a 4se secondond eccentric.
That's going to teach you how to hold
tension under load, how to hold position
from start to finish. So we've got to
maintain uh foot tracking in line with
the knee in line with the hip. So we
don't want any lateral shifting. We want
everything to be aligned and stacked.
That is the strongest structure
and the best way to ingrain that
structure and to maintain tension is to
move slowly. So a lot of people think
you know moving fast is the objective uh
and to be explosive so that we can teach
ourselves to be explosive athletes. And
to a large degree I agree. However, in
order to do that well, you've got to
learn slow before you introduce speed.
Uh, and that's how I'm doing it today.
So, I know I have had a few weeks of of
practice and,
you know, it's getting better every
week. It is, but I still know that I
haven't built the muscularity in maybe
the adductors. Let's just call it the
sumo muscles, right? So it's it's the
same muscles that I'm building with my
squats on my conventional deadlift. It
just is. That's adductors, that's
glutes, that's hamstrings, that's quads,
that's erectus spina. Same muscles, but
just in a slightly different pattern. So
what you want to do is ingrain that
pattern.
Spend more time there before you start
applying hard effort there. So back to
the way that I like to set up my
long-term plan. the first phase whenever
I if you were to train with me on the
first phase, I'd put you on a movement
literacy phase where the main focus is
refining movement and I like to do that
on a moderate rep range. I say first
phase is usually five to six reps. Uh
Vince Lav told me four to six reps. Same
thing then, so here's my long-term plan.
First phase is learn to move low rep
range on the complex movements. Of
course, not everything has to be those
low rep ranges. Let's call it four to
six cuz that's what I'm going to be
doing today. Not everything. Accessory
exercises, don't do four to six. So, you
can still do lat pull downs and dumbbell
pressing and all that stuff. Don't do
four to six reps. Use the appropriate
rep range for the specific exercise I'm
talking about. Whenever I refer to a rep
range, I'm always talking about the
first exercise of the day, assuming
you're doing barbell free weight
movements.
So, that's the first phase. Then I would
go to a typical model which is where
most people start their models which is
usually uh if you ask anyone uh who's
studied training and understands a
little bit about periodization typically
the answer they give you is you should
start your programs with high volume and
gradually over the course of the
long-term plan decrease the volume so
that we can gradually increase the load.
So high volume phases builds muscle and
work capacity. Then we go to a strength
phase where we're slightly reducing the
rep range so we can start increasing the
loads. And then the next phase, we go on
to a peaking block which is where we
teach you how to perform a heavy single.
So the way that we do that instead of
doing exactly the traditional way, which
is starting with high volume, we're just
starting with a phase of movement
literacy. And that's what we're going to
be doing today. Technique. Technique.
What am I looking for?
Feet. I'm looking for my feet to be
about 45° outwards. So it's roughly.
Some people like to have their feet a
little bit straighter. Some people like
to spllay them out a little bit. For me,
45° it, you know, we say comfort, right?
But for me, everything's uncomfortable
with a sumo deadlift. Everything is
uncomfortable. It just feels strange. So
that's why when we talk about like what
foot angle, uh, a lot of people say
wherever you're comfortable. In my
opinion, it's pretty hard to know where
you're comfortable, which is why I like
to start with a rough guide and say,
"Okay, I don't know where you are
comfortable. Let's just start roughly
what looks about right." So, for me,
that's 45°. Um, and it's kind of
comfortable. Uh, next thing that I want
to do, barbell over my midoot.
Okay. So, that's not quite shins on the
bar. It's almost shins on the bar, but
when I get in position, you know, it's
it's pretty close, too. But what I want
to make sure that I'm doing is using my
lats. So, this is something that I know
with a a lot of people that I see who
mess up their technique that aren't
using their lats. the bar drifts away
from their body and their upper body
folds. Their back rounds and the bar
being away from the center of your base
of support or away from your midoot is a
lot less efficient and therefore it's a
lot weaker. And this is where things
like back injuries occur. Not because
it's high risk of injury to round your
back, but because if you're lifting a
maximal load, what you perceive to be
maximal, and then you take it out of
position, it's maximal when everything
is aligned. But when everything is out
of alignment, you are now exposing weak
points. So therefore, what's the cure
for this? When you're learning,
especially the the key the the cue is
armpits to pelvis.
And a way to enforce that is to keep the
bar in contact with your shins from
start to finish. So that's why me in my
learning phase especially, I like to use
these shin guards so that I can use it
as a cue for me to keep it in contact
with my body. And that teaches me to
ingrain that pattern of keeping my lats
on. Another thing that a lot of people
do for this uh Ed Cohen, I stole this.
Well, I didn't steal it. I haven't
really used it, but uh I'm quoting what
Ed Cohen does, and I've seen him do it
before. When he spots a deadlift, if he
sees people are not using their lats,
what he does is he ties a band here and
he'll stand over there and he'll pull it
in that direction. So, when you're doing
a deadlift, if he's pulling in that
direction, what should I be doing?
Pulling it back. So that's enforcing
that cue of keeping the bar in contact
with your body. So that's the greatest
powerlifter of all time, Ed Cohen. And
he's actually a very intelligent coach.
I don't know if he actually coaches
people, but you know, I used to look at
him and think that guy's good because
he's just, you know, got the right
proportions and everything uh for the
sport. Uh until I met him and I until I
saw him in the back rooms of
competitions and the advice that he
gives lifters, man, that guy's a really
switched on guy. Uh, and that's one of
his cues that he gives. And I've seen
him spot people. They miss their
deadlift and he'll come in instead of
spotting them by lifting the weight.
He'll tie the band and pull it that way.
It's not supporting the weight. It's not
helping. He's not taking kilograms off.
He's pulling in the other direction to
force you to keep it in contact with
your body or in line with the center of
your base of support. And when that's
the case, it's a lot stronger. Right?
So, that's my goals here. 45°.
Let's have a look. I'm using straps only
because
my hands were
torn.
Okay.
Okay, quite uncomfortable. I think I got
that right. Uh, hard to tell. Only on a
light weight. Now, something you might
be asking, why are you using a belt on
the first set? Um, well, my belt, look
how loose it is. The way that I use my
belt is not tight. It's kind of I use
that high belt position. Um either way,
I like to warm up with the equipment
that I'm going to be using on the top
sets. I didn't need those straps for
that weight. Of course, I didn't.
However, it's what I'm going to be using
on my top sets. So, I just like to
practice the same technique from start
to finish. Now, the next thing for the
belt to work, you need to be holding
your breath and pushing against it. And
interestingly, I felt that is I'm doing
the slow eentric and going.
So, the belt's not really working
anyway. So, I wonder how I'm going to be
doing it with
the top weight. But for that belt to
work, if I was to do a one rep max, my
recommendation would be to hold your
breath from start to finish. So, I'd be
going,
but I don't know what I'm going to be
doing. It's not going to be a one rep
max.
It's going to be very submaximal.
I'd say that my max for the sumo
deadlift is probably around the 300 kg
mark at the moment.
And today my
estimate is that I'm going to probably
be doing this with 200 kg
>> for 200.
It's not. It's not. It's fine.
No, it's not always too red, too blue.
This is learning. Today's a blue day,
bro. Look over there. Look at the squat
rack. Don't you remember? What did I
just squat? Today's a blue day, bro.
Today's a blue day. Sometimes you feel
red, sometimes you feel blue.
>> Unrelated question. The last
um technique on deadlift has changed so
much. 500
>> 501.
>> Yeah,
>> it has. It has
>> like how did you approach that at least
a pulling 500 kg and you still have to
change the technique
better?
>> Let me tell you something. It's a
process. So with Thor, yeah, his
technique changed a lot. But I'd already
been working with him since 2016. Now
when I met him, he had a 200 a 450 kg
deadlift that he did at 2015 Europe's
strongest man. And the way that he did
that, if you have a look at the video,
was hitch hitch hitch. Uh technique was
I don't want to speak negatively about
Thor in any way. He's the best in the
world. But objectively, if you look at
the technique then compared to now, it
was nowhere near as good. Uh especially
considering he was hitching it. That's
actually the least efficient way of
doing it. Uh it's a lot more efficient
to not hitch. But a lot of the times
you're hitching cuz you're out of
position. And it was just a display of
just raw strength. That guy is just
strong, obviously. Um, but either way,
his technique was wider stance. Um, you
know, and a lot of people think that
with the wider stance, forget sumo, I'm
doing sumo now. It's a different story,
different lift. Uh, for conventional
deadlift, wider stance means you have to
use a wider grip. The wider the grip,
the further you must travel.
So, when we use a close or a hipwidth
stance, that allows us to bring our arms
in the position they need to be, which
is the most efficient is straight down.
So every you know the wider you go the
further you need to travel. It's as
simple as that. So
for me when I first met Thor like those
were the discussions that we were having
is that's the adjustment in technique
that's needed. But the fact is imagine
getting a 450 kg deadlifter and saying I
need to completely overhaul your
technique and on day one it just needs
to change. I'll tell you what the
outcome would be. It would be a
significant decrease in strength
immediately. And the first time I worked
with him, I was traveling to Bangkok
um just before World's Strongest Man in
2016 because he was working on a movie
because that's what he does. He's an
actor and he was working on the
kickboxer movie, you know, the
JeanClaude Vanam one. It was a remake of
the later versions. And so I was helping
him train for that competition. That was
um I think it was roughly about 8 weeks
out from 2016 World's Strongest Man. And
that's not the time to introduce a new
technique to an elite level. When I say
elite level, he came second in that
competition, second in the world to
Brian Shaw, 2016. So that's not the time
to introduce new techniques and say,
"Okay, you can't do this right now. We
need to change." Right? So it was a
matter of let's continue doing the
technique you're doing and work on the
small things that's not going to
negatively impact your strength
immediately. So that was the process
from there and it was always being
reactive because from world's strongest
man he's then got uh you know the next
competition that he has to work on. So,
I don't know what they were. There's
always competitions. There's um you know
there's Arnold's in the year. There's
Europe's strongest man. There's
Iceland's strongest man. Um world's
ultimate strongman. There was Rogue
Invit. There's so many different damn
competitions and it's just never ending.
So to change an elite lifter's technique
isn't just a matter of and this is
advice for you guys if you're advanced
lifter or if you've been training a
certain technique for a long period of
time and someone comes along and says
that's wrong and this is the right way
and you need to stop doing that and move
straight to this uh a lot of the times
you'll have a negative experience
because it's such a drastic change. So
wait for the airplane. So here's another
example of it. things like a bench press
with a wide grip. So, a lot of the times
if you're used to using a narrow grip
and you see your favorite bench presser,
you're using a wide grip and you go from
your comfortable narrow grip and then
say, "All right, let's go wide because
that's how the best do it." And it feels
terrible. Well, the reason it feels
terrible is because your muscles
surrounding your shoulders, like usually
it's those pec muscles are now at a
greater stretch position and then
haven't been conditioned to be strong in
that position. So instead of going, you
know, my I use a close grip, uh, let's
try wide. No, that doesn't work. Instead
of doing that, you need to gradually
condition the pecs to gradually get
stronger and stronger in that wider and
wider position. Same with squat stance.
This is something that I learned from my
early mentor Eric Liybridge. He has
quite a wide stance squat, but even he
said, and he has a 480 kg squat, and he
said that he didn't start with his
stance that wide. He started with his
stance a lot narrower and gradually
built the conditioning in the in the
muscles surrounding his hips to be able
to handle the demands of that wide
stance squat. So same applies with Thor.
It wasn't a matter of conditioning the
muscles to accept that. It was just
changing the position. It's a different
motor pattern. So for Thor, it was a
gradual process. Uh and in even in 501
when it was uh 2020, he was still using
that wide stance. So we corrected and
strengthened other structures in his
body. Um the biggest thing that we
strengthened was we included more
squats. So that was the first thing we
did from 2016 to 2020. We built his
squat up to a 460 kg squat. So that's
another reason why his deadlift in in uh
2016 the 450 he had very high hip
position and he did it with all back. He
didn't use a huge amount of leg drive
because he didn't have a huge amount of
leg leg drive. When I first met Thor I
asked him what his best squat was and he
said uh he didn't have an answer. He
said, "I don't really know because I
don't really train squat. I use it as an
accessory exercise and usually I just do
it for reps at about 200 kg because it's
never in competition in strongman. So, I
never push the squat." And I thought and
I said it to him, "Don't you think that
you should have a like a 400 kilo squat
if you're going to be the strongest man
in the world?" And he said, "Yeah, that
sounds pretty cool." And I said, I think
that we should work towards that. Let's
just build your squat in the background.
I just think it's the staple exercise
for strong man, even if you're not
competing with that movement, is to have
a strong squat. It's going strong legs,
strong hips, is going to carry over to
just a strong body, especially with the
strong man movements. And so we did, and
that's what I believe was the biggest
change from 2015 to 2020 was his leg
strength. So his technique didn't change
that much. Um, but his strength
increased mainly in his legs. So he had
the same back strength, but he increased
his leg strength. Then from 2020
um yeah that's when he started refining
the technique and started adjusting the
stance and bringing it in closer and
using a much more efficient position. Uh
and it was difficult to test immediately
because 2020 he was uh he retired and he
went on and quit training. I don't want
to say quit training. He trained every
day multiple times per day for a boxing
fight and his strength training was
brought right down to if anything at
all. Uh all he was doing was boxing. Uh
anyway, so that took two years. So when
did he do his boxing fight? Was that
2022? Um yeah, it was a couple of years
off. It was like a year and a half of of
very little training. And then when he
came back, that's when it was time to
start ingraining the new pattern. Uh and
it was a process. And the first display
of that technique was uh I believe it
was 20 was it 2023 Arnold's
he did
I think it was the 2023 Arnolds 2023
Arnold's I did a video on that that
deadlift in my opinion that was the best
looking 1,000 lb raw like raw strongman
raw is no suit still using straps
strongman is always straps but it was
the best looking far fastest and
smoothest 1,000 lb deadlift ever
performed with strongman rules, which is
raw with straps. Raw means no deadlift
suit. So the 510 was with a deadlift
suit. So Edd's 500 and all the big
competitions in Strongman, they allow a
deadlift suit, but Arnold's you're not
allowed a deadlift suit. You are allowed
straps.
And that was the first true display of
his new technique with the moderate.
It's not a close stance. It's hipwidth
stance. That's where it should be.
uh but compared to what he was so his
stance was kind of roughly here that's
how he used to do the conventional and
then he moved into here and it is just
smooth and efficient fast forward to 6th
of September 2025
perfect stance perfect position perfect
lift damn people are talking about that
as the greatest lift in history of every
strength lift possible cleaning jerk
snatch bench press squat that 510
deadlift the way that it came up.
Easiest world record you've seen. And
that's the technique.
Okay.
All right. That's all good. Little bit
of time off. Lucky it's only 100. Okay.
Have you trained other strong men as
well?
>> I've trained many strong men uh at the
highest level too, but typically when
I'm coaching Thor, um I have had a
number of strong men reach out and ask
me to coach them at the same time. Um,
and as much of an honor as it is, I've
always said no because
big conflict of interest, you know, I
put everything into Thor. Uh, but then,
you know, when Thor wasn't training for
certain competitions, I've worked with
many strong men. Uh, in fact, I g gave a
presentation
yesterday posted on YouTube speaking
about Thor has the biggest powerlifting
total of all of the strong men. um
equaling Bill Casmire with 1100 kg
because I was talking about the case for
why Thor is the strongest strongman, the
strongest athlete, the strongest human
in the world. And I said of all the top
strong men, there's two with an 1100
kilo total.
And someone said Graeme Hicks also has
1100. And I thought, okay, it's not that
I forgot that, you know, and I don't
want to say Graeme Hicks isn't one of
the best strong men. I was talking
about, you know, whenever you're talking
about the best strong men, the strongest
men in history, I'd say that they need
to have at least the world's strongest
man title or or, you know, some of
those, but Graeme Hicks hasn't won any
of those. Now, here's the thing. It's
like, of course, I knew that. How did I
know that? Well, I coached Graeme Hicks
for that. So, I thought I thought I
should have mentioned that, you know,
given him an honorable mention because I
coached Graeme Hicks for that 1100 kg um
powerlifting total, which he did here in
Sydney, Australia.
and um you know and I've coached
um several other strong men at the
highest level. Lawrence Charai worked
with him. Luke Stoaltman worked with
him.
Um
Vitardis Las, I've worked with him, you
know, for a short period of time. I'm
sure I'm forgetting a few
um
I'm sure I'm, you know, and I've got a
few thousand pound deadlifters. Uh Ned
mean Ambeskovich. I worked with him to
get his first,000lb deadlift which was
at Giants live world deadlift
championship a few years ago.
Uh who else did I work with?
Another,000lb deadlifter.
>> Not a deadlifter. Now Vaser and Ree,
they're great powerlifters, but they're
not thousandblifters.
Ree has a 410 kilogram deadlift. Alex
Simon has a 400 kg deadlift.
Yeah, I've Yeah. And you know, and I've
worked with I've worked with a lot of
strong men. Um but yeah, that's the idea
of it. Like you know, for me to take on
people um
that are directly competing with Thor,
it's a huge conflict of interest. So, I
just,
you know, I travel with Thor. I go and
live with him in in his hometown in
Iceland in his house. You know, what am
I going to do? Coach him and then be
working on coaching his competitors? It
doesn't work. I got him to 510 and he's
me struggling away at 140 sumo.
How embarrassing.
That's a good story.
>> Yeah.
very uncomfortable. So, what I'm going
to do now is you're not allowed to ask
me questions cuz I'm cooling down in
between and it's that first rep. So,
what I've got to do, this is what I
feel, and I always feel this way
whenever I do sumo, is when I'm warming
up with my sumo, the first rep, my hips
are high. I've got to get my hips down a
little bit lower,
but it's feel it feels uncomfortable.
So, my first rep, my hips are too hips
are too high. It's like I'm doing a a
Romanian deadlift freaking sumo.
So, that's what I've got to get to. So,
when I warm up my hips, I've got to get
my And the way that I like to do that is
lift my eyes up. So when my head's down,
my body follows the eyes and that's how
I look. So I've got to get that lower by
lifting my eyes up.
It's
[__]
That is uncomfortable.
How's that? Four reps on 200. I know I
could have done more. just felt
terrible. Felt uncomfortable. Oh well,
such is life. You get to see the start
of the journey because I promise you
after phases of this, it's going to be
more than 200 kg. I mean, yeah, this
week I did 275 pretty comfortably except
for my hand.
Um, but yeah, what's the idea of this?
Slow eccentrics is refining the movement
pattern.
This is a stiff bar. Stiff bar. So the
difference between the stiff bar and a
deadlift bar is there's less bend.
So when you're deadlifting with a
deadlift bar, it bends which allows you
at the start position to be a little bit
higher off the ground,
which
means that essentially
this is almost like a deficit deadlift.
my start position. It comes off the
ground. The whole weight comes off the
ground a little bit earlier, which means
I have to be lower to the ground, which
is harder,
which is why it's a great exercise to
start with and strengthen the position,
which is the hardest position of the
movement, which is off the ground.
So once it's up, it's up. It's like it's
easy, but it's getting it up that's
tough. Now, Vince's instructions was
four to six reps.
Normally, I try and go for the top end
and overachieve, but today I was just
like, you know what? Let's just let's
just leave it at four so I can do
multiple sets of Probably could have
done more, but it's like, oh, I don't
know. I'm going to look at the
technique. That felt ugly.
>> Yeah, definitely.
ugly.
I said you were impressed.
>> No, no, I'm not impressed, bro. Ugly.
Like I'm bent over. It's like I've just
tighten the hips,
you know? It's not like it looks like
it's coming up easily, you know? And it
it kind of is, but it's just
uncomfortable.
It's just uncomfortable.
But I see the value.
V. I'm at.
I don't know what to say. I know that
looks ugly. I know that looks ugly. And
you know what? It's not that I can't
take criticism, but I'll tell you
something about coaching
is you don't want to listen to too many
people, right? So, right now, I'll tell
you who's coaching me.
Vince Slav Deitrov.
That guy can deadlift more than you.
More than you. So, he's going to be
coaching me and I'm going to be taking
his feedback.
And I know that this is what people do
on social media. They come on. It's like
you need to do this, you need to do
that. I know what I need to do. I need
to change that. That's ugly. As that's
ugly. I can see that it's ugly. My hips
are high.
I'm musling it with my back.
It's probably a result of doing the set
of squats. My legs are fatigued
and I'm being lazy with my leg drive.
It's not by choice. It's like I want to
use my legs, but it's just like I'm
trying to get in position, but it's just
hard anyway.
So,
I know it's ugly,
but that's okay. You know what? I'm just
holding myself accountable. I'm showing
you this is my start of my journey. I
know it sucks. Watch this space.
Hopefully, it won't suck
after a few phases of this. I don't want
to do a few phases of this. I want to do
one phase and then done. What does one
phase equal? 3 to four weeks. So that's
200. Next week I'll do 210. The week
after I'll do 220. So 3 weeks of that.
I think that'll be plenty. And then
we'll see
what Vincent has in store for me.
But you know, it's never really a good
idea to then go, oh, let's test my max.
Now, that's still not a lot of sessions
on sumo, and I do want to test my max.
I'd rather do singles and let it be done
with instead of doing this stupid rep
work, but I know that it's the stupid
rep work that's going to ingrain the
pattern, refine the movement, refine the
skill,
not coming in and working on heavy
singles every single damn session like
what a lot of people do incorrectly,
what I teach people, do not do, do not
do. Anyway, whatever. Sorry if I seem
like negative Nancy talking about sumos.
You're probably looking at me negatively
anyway, saying, "Why are you doing sumo,
you stupid coach?" Whatever.
Because it is a good exercise. That's
why uh yes, I do agree that a
conventional deadlift is a truer sign of
strength, which is why in Strongman,
they don't allow sumo. They allow
conventional only. And I think that is
the best test of strength. But I compete
in powerlifting and I teach powerlifters
and I teach sumo deadlifters as well. So
makes sense that I work towards being
good at those movements that I teach
people how to do. Doesn't that make
sense? I'm sure it does. I'm only going
to do one more set.
[Music]
Oh man,
what a strange strange thing. Anyway,
whatever. I did the work. Three sets of
four on 200 kg. That was a tough one.
Easy stuff for now. I will finish with
some hamstring curls
and then that's going to be my session.
That's a lot of long time of me talking.
So, we're going to end it there. Thank
you for joining me. Thank you for
watching me in pain. Hope you enjoyed
that and I'll see you next time.